this is Jeff Bezos he is the richest
person in the world back in 2017 he
became the world's first cent a
billionaire that's a net worth of a
hundred billion US dollars and having
made tens of billions during the corona
virus pandemic that figures now a whole
lot more how's that even possible his
fortune came from founding Amazon which
he's still the boss of that's not to
mention his other ventures from the
Washington Post to Amazon owned Whole
Foods to space exploration company Blue
Origin the list goes on but mr. Bazo
seems a bit of a contradictory character
a nerdy alpha male with a reputation for
really caring for customers but accused
of neglecting his employees a
businessman criticized for his charity
efforts but fixated on saving the planet
like his Silicon Valley counterpart Elon
Musk Bezos sees investing in space
travel as a moral duty he must oppose
low fare back on earth with politicians
coming at him from all sides yet the
society are we willing to accept the
cost one of his own vice president's
quitting over Amazon's response to
pandemic concerned workers he seems to
have his hands full here's a few things
you should know about Jeff Bezos
[Music]
at just three years old Bezos figured
out how to take apart his cot with a
screwdriver because he wanted it to be
like a real bed
he developed engineering skills at a
very young age setting up an electronic
alarm to keep his younger siblings out
of his room aged 10 his precocious and
has got the better of him when he caused
his grandmother to burst into tears
after calculating how many years she'd
taken off her life by smoking his
grandfather took him aside and told him
listen you're gonna figure out one day
that it's harder to be kind than clever
beta's his public image is arguably
someone who cares more about cleverness
than kindness and it's his ongoing focus
on metrics at Amazon that really shows
this early on the Amazon boss would ask
interviewees for test scores and
continually raised the score required
for the job as the Amazon talent pool
increased those were the lowest scores
were let go in Amazon warehouses workers
have complained of time toilet breaks
and electronic workstations which
monitor employees to ensure they are
packing enough boxes but bezos's
affection for metrics might actually
explain amazon's highly unusual way of
doing business for years the CEO got a
lot of grief from Wall Street for the
store's lack of profit as the stock
price was going the wrong way everything
inside the company was going the right
way but who was the tortoise not the
hare
mr. Bezos was not going to be rushed was
happy to bide his time reinvesting in
expanding the company confident his long
term vision will pay off many of the
traits that make Amazon unusual are now
deeply ingrained in the culture
Bezos has always done things a little
bit differently in Amazon he set up the
bookstore in his garage in 1994 warning
early investors there was a 70% chance
it would fail since then
he's established many rules rituals and
traditions which to the outsider may
seem a touch eccentric don't even think
of using PowerPoint in an Amazon
presentation is banned instead everyone
reads and discusses a long carefully
written memo
it isn't like big teams either in fact
according to Bezos any one team should
be small enough that it could be fed by
two pizzas if there's one thing
amazon.com is about its obsessive
attention to the customer experience
bubble Bezos likes to talk about what he
calls customer obsession in fact if you
have a problem with Amazon you can even
send Jeff an email my email address is
famous and I keep it and then I read it
it's Jeff with Amazon acosta Bezos will
often forward a complaint to a colleague
accompanied by a single question mark
meaning they should probably drop
whatever they're doing and look into
this and the office employees are
encouraged to rate each other and expect
it to adhere to the 14 leadership
principles which include having the
backbone to criticize others when a New
York Times article depicted an
atmosphere of bullying at the company
Jeff Bezos responded directly in a memo
to his employees anyone working in a
company that really is like the one
described in the New York Times would be
crazy to stay
[Music]
in 2018 President Trump accused Bezos of
sales tax avoidance and anti-competitive
business practices leading to Amazon's
share price falling by nine percent and
reducing businesses personal wealth by
over 10 billion although he later
acuteness criticism of Amazon continued
with senator Bernie Sanders stop Bezos
act the wealthiest person in the world
is advertising jobs they pay workers
wages that are so low that they have to
go on food stamps the basis actually
responded and raised the minimum wage at
Amazon to $15 mr. Bezos and Amazon are
now leading the way and this isn't the
only time beta's has made a dramatic
utah in 2018 he rebuffed criticism for a
perceived lack of charity work by
contributing a total of two billion
dollars to his Bezos day1 fund for
homelessness and education a charity
founded by his ex-wife author Mackenzie
Bezos we are really evolved to be
pioneers Bezos invest 1 billion dollars
each year into a space company Blue
Origin this is the most important work
I'm doing when I was five years old
Neil Armstrong stepped onto the moon I
was imprinted with this passion for
space and for exploration since even
high school Bezos has dreamt of an epic
plan for Humanity this gem of a planet
we're finally as a species big enough to
really impact it we can fix that problem
by moving out into the solar system like
fill a magnet Elon Musk he's creating a
fleet of rockets which as if by magic
can land themselves vertically making
them reusable and so far more
financially viable
unlike musk he isn't speeding towards
his goal but methodically and quietly
plotting it out
predating ferocity step by step
ferociously is the motto of Blue Origin
and one which Bezos himself lives by who
today is building a 10,000 year clock
deep inside a mountain on his Texas
ranch as a symbol of long sightedness
this incremental and often secretive
approach was how Bezos conquered retail
and it could be how he conquered space
too